<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook V3.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN">
<book lang="en">

<bookinfo>
<title>The KSpaceduel Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Andreas</firstname>
<surname>Zehender</surname>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<date>05/05/2000</date>
<releaseinfo>1.1</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
<application>KSpaceduel</application> is an space arcade game. Two ships fly around the sun and
try to shoot eachother.
</para>
<para>This documentation was last updated for version 1.0.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>Space duel</keyword>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>game</keyword>
<keyword>ships</keyword>
<keyword>shooting</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>


<chapter id="Introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para><application>KSpaceduel</application> is an space arcade game for two players. Each player controls a ship
that flies around the sun and tries to shoot at the other ship.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="TheGame">
<title>The Game</title>

<sect1 id="RulesOfTheGame">
<title>Rules of the Game</title>
<sect2 id="ShipMovement">
<title>Ship Movement</title>
<para>Each player controls one ship. </para>
<para>The ships can rotate, accelerate, shoot and lay mines.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="Energy">
<title>Energy</title>
<para>Each ship has an amount of energy (refer to the game options for values). </para>
<para>Ships need energy for rotation, acceleration, shooting and laying mines. A ship
gets energy from its solar panels. The amount of energy a ship gets depends on
the distance from and direction to the sun. A ship gets more energy near the sun
and less energy near the border. It gets the full amount of energy if the sun
shines directly on the panels and less or even no energy if the sun shines at an
angle to the panel or to the side of the panel.</para>
<para>If a ship has no energy it can't navigate or shoot. </para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="HitPoints">
<title>Hit points</title>
<para>
Collisions with own or other bullets or mines decrease the hit points of a ship.
If two ships collide, the weaker ship is destroyed and the hit points of the
stronger ship are decreased by the hit points of the weaker ship plus an amount
(Crash Damage). A ship is destroyed when it flies into the sun.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="BulletsandMines">
<title>Bullets and Mines </title>
<para>Bullets fly around the sun like a ship. </para>
<para>Mines have an amount of energy to stay at the same position. When the energy is
spent, the mine falls into the sun. Mines near the sun need more energy than
those which are further away. </para>
<para>Mines can be destroyed with bullets. </para>
<para>By default a ship can have 5 bullets and 3 mines on the screen. </para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="Powerups">
<title>Powerups</title>

<para>From time to time powerups appear on the play field.</para>

<para>There are four different powerups:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Mine: The maximum number of mines is increased for the player.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Bullet: The maximum number of bullets is increased for the player.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Energie (yellow sphere): The player gets energy.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Schild (blue sphere): The player gets hit points.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="Options">
<title>Options</title>

<sect2 id="OptionsKeys">
<title>Keys</title>
<para>Keys can be configured with the
<menuchoice>
  <guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Keys...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
menu item.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="OptionsConfigurations">
<title>Configurations</title>
<para>All settings of the game are configurable with the
<menuchoice>
  <guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Game...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
menu item.</para>
<para>Settings are collected in different configurations. If you choose the "Custom"
configuration, you can define all settings for yourself. If you have found an
interesting configuration, mail it to the author of the game. It can be
implemented in a future version (send the part [Game] in the file "~/.kde/share/config/kspaceduelrc").</para>
<para>The settings are:</para>
<para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Sun</emphasis>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Sun energy:</emphasis> The strength of the sun. The higher the value the
quicker ships will be charged.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Gravity:</emphasis> The strength of the gravitational pull of the sun.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Bullet</emphasis>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Shot speed:</emphasis> The speed of bullets. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Energy need:</emphasis> The amount of energy needed for one shot. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Max number:</emphasis> The maximum number of bullets a player can have on the
screen.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Damage:</emphasis> The number of hit points damage done when a bullet hits a ship. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Life time:</emphasis> The maximum life time of a bullet.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Reload time:</emphasis> The time a ship needs to reload a bullet. </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Mine</emphasis>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Mine fuel:</emphasis> The amount of fuel on a mine</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Energy need:</emphasis> The amount of energy needed for laying a mine </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Activate time:</emphasis> The time a mine is inactive, </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Damage:</emphasis> The number of hit points of damage done when a ship hits a mine </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Max number:</emphasis> maximum number of mines a player can have on the screen </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Reload time:</emphasis> The time a ship needs to reload a mine. </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">General</emphasis>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Game speed:</emphasis> controls the speed of the whole game </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Start</emphasis>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Position X</emphasis> and <emphasis remap="bf">Position Y:</emphasis> the ships position at the begin of
a new round. The ships start at opposite sides of the sun.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Velocity X</emphasis> and <emphasis remap="bf">Velocity Y:</emphasis> velocity at the begin of a new
round Ship: </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Ship</emphasis>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Acceleration:</emphasis> Acceleration of the ships </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Energy need:</emphasis> The energy needed to accelerate a ship. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Rotation speed:</emphasis> The speed at which a ship rotates. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Energy need:</emphasis> The energy needed to rotate a ship. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Crash damage:</emphasis> The number of hit points damage done when two ships
collide. </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Powerups:</emphasis>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Appearance time:</emphasis> Maximal time between the appearance of two powerups.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Life time:</emphasis> Maximal life time of a powerup.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Energie amount:</emphasis> Amount of energy a player gets from a energy powerup.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Shield amount:</emphasis> Amount of hit points a player gets from a shield powerup.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="OptionsHandicap">
<title>Handicap </title>
<para>You can specify the number of hit points each player has at the begin of a new
round with
<menuchoice>
  <guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Handicap...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="OptionsGraphics">
<title>Graphics</title>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Refreshtime:</emphasis> Time between two screen refreshs in ms. All settings are
independent of the refreshtime!</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>


<sect1 id="Ai">
<title>Ai</title>
<para>Each ship can be controlled by the computer. You can choose a difficulty for
each ship.</para>
<para>The ai is optimized for the default config, but can mamage with other configs.
Just try...</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>


<chapter id="Credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>
<para><application>KSpaceduel</application></para>
<para>Program copyright 1998 Andreas Zehender <email>az@azweb.de</email></para>
<para>Documentation copyright 2000 Andreas Zehender <email>az@azweb.de</email></para>

<para>
This program is licensed under the terms of the
<ulink url="common/gpl-license.html">GNU GPL</ulink>.
</para>

</chapter>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->
